Did you actually live in Abbecombe here itself, Jez?
Well, we lived, a family moved there, a McFather moved across there in 1951 to work,
but we were still at that time living in Lannidlois.
The family came to live there because the Forest Commission located or made a new house available
called the Forester's House, which is just below Combsgowan there on the road,
as you're going up from the barn towards Bullsorner on the corner there, the White House,
which has got the big chalet built next to it now, I think.
So yeah, we moved there because my father got the post of Forester in charge, I think it was
or something like that, at the time for Coed Sarner Forest, that was just starting at that time.
So we moved in then into that house.
My parents stayed there till my father retired and I left there when I was about
18, I suppose just over 18, to go to university.
So your father obviously worked for the forestry.
Yes.
Did your mother work or did she work in the home?
No, there wasn't much scope in there and she also had five children to look after.
That was enough work then?
I had two brothers and two sisters.
There were four of us when we moved in 1953, I think, and then the year later my
younger sister Karen came along.
So I think given those days, when we moved into the house, there was no electricity there,
of course. It was a modern house.
It had gotten fully fitted out with gas lighting.
Horrendous when you think about it now, but they had little light shade with two little chains
that you operated the valve to get the gas to go through the element that kind of
from the rest attracted the light for you.
And was that a gas cooker, I assume?
But the house, when it had been built, it had been built with a wash house,
with a boiler thing in it.
It was a cobbled house.
And then there was the office next to that, which was the forest commission office.
That was adjoined to the house at the time.
And it was a small office there.
And there was a telephone line.
I think there was probably a telephone line there before the electricity came.
Because when we moved, the electricity hadn't come to the abbey because the
abbey come here itself was powered by the light from the generator down by the mill
at the bottom.
And those little posts with 24 volt DC or whatever it was that brought some lighting to the house.
I think it came as far as the school.
I don't think it went any further than that.
I don't know if it came to come here.
Some really rickety little posts that actually got the whole barrel wire.
I don't remember those.
Amazing.
Yeah, it was quite a modern house, but limited by the private water supply and things like that.
From a little valley up above.
But every so many years we had to go and dig out and get all the silt out of it and things like that.
But yeah, it was a lovely open air life.
We used to spend all our time fishing in the river by hand usually and things like that with my brother.
My immediately younger brother.
My elder brother kind of went to be working probably by then.